Hello. Hi everyone.
Hello. Hello. Thank you. Thank you all so
much for joining me today. My name is Danny.
Danny Woo. I'm head of AI products at Canva
and we're a visual communications platform.
Today I'm really excited to share a bit about
how how we've have built camera claude and how
we've been working with um anthropic and using the
amazing claude models. Um I'll be first starting
by giving an intro to Canva as well as taking you
behind the story of Canva code like what gave us
the idea why we built it as well as the things
we learned and finish up by sharing sharing a
few lessons that will hopefully be helpful and
some time in Q&A. So, I'm incredibly excited and
let's jump right in. Firstly, just a little bit
of context about Canva in case um you don't know
what we are. Um what we do is we really bring
the entire design journey and experience in to
one simple page and one simple experience. Um a
decade ago, design used to be quite inaccessible
and it was just quite quite hard. You had to you
had to learn how to use fairly complex tools.
um they could cost a lot of money and you
had to go to so many different platforms and
services to complete a design like finding
stock photos, getting the right fonts,
um starting with a template or publishing. And
what we do is we really have integrated all
the different steps of this journey into just
one page and one platform. So you can create a
presentation or you can create a poster, use one
of the templates, generate some amazing AI images,
um create some text and publish to a website,
publish to or print it out, um and get delivered
to your door. Um that's that's really what we
do. Um and so we have a pretty simple mission
and we've had the same mission for the past
decade and a bit and it's really to empower the
world to design. When we think about this, like we
really think about empowering absolutely everyone,
whether you are a student, whether you're a
teacher, whether you are a nonprofit, or whether
you are a marketer and creative um creative in a
large enterprise um to design just about anything,
publish it anywhere with every ingredient like
photos, video, music, and more supporting every
language as well as every single device. And the
thing about AI is that like we really see it as
something that absolutely supercharges the core
premise of what Canva was um built to do, which is
to allow everyone to to make designs really simply
and really easily and make it take less time
instead of this being time consuming and tedious.
Let you create amazing outputs really really
quickly. And the as I'm sure you all know like the
power of generative AI is just really helping us
helping us accelerate on all of those fronts.
So when it comes to our AI strategy, we have
a three-pronged approach. When it comes to things
like really to things like specialized things like
design generation and rich understanding, that's
where we're really investing our efforts into
developing our own models for our unique needs. Uh
we're also really huge fans of a flexible approach
where we add magic everywhere to the Canva product
through the best commercial commercially available
and open source models. And this really helps us
deliver AI powered features and workflows to users
um much faster much more scalably and also much
cheaper. And finally to round things off um we
have our app ecosystem where any developer can
build apps including AI apps um for all of our 300
million plus users. Um and just a bit of a short
timeline of our AI journey. We started in 2017
using machine learning for search rankings and
color recommendations and that was already really
cool. Uh we launched background remover which
lets you take any image and would use computer
vision to remove um the background from it and
that continues to be one of our most popular and
highest revenue driving features uh with diffusion
models and the geni wave. Um, we launched texture
image, magic write, magic edit, magic design,
and so much more as part of canvas magic studio,
which is a collection of integrated and native AI
features that help you with just about every step
of design. Um, and actually just a month ago
in LA, uh, we had, um, we had Canva create uh,
and we had some very exciting launches.
We launched Canva AI, we launched, um,
Canva sheet, and of course, Cana code, which I'm
here to talk about. So what is Canva code? Let me
play a little video. If you have an idea, a dream
of what you want to create, just um in camera AI,
just prompt it, describe what you want, and we use
Claude to generate amazing interactive prototypes
that really understand you and really help just
about everyone, especially non-technical folks
and non-engineers create their dreams. And then
with a one with a one click you can including a
camera design you can publish your website get a
custom domain everything without touching a single
line of code or knowing what CLI is. So what's
the story behind it? And you might also think,
you know, design and code, they don't seem like
they naturally mix, right? So why did we I guess
um why did we make Canva code? So I actually want
to zoom out a little bit and um when we build
products at Canva, we like to describe as going
from the chaos to clarity spectrum. So at the very
start, like in it might just be a little idea.
It might just be like a simple um simple like
vision deck that's not really thought through of
something that's really really cool. And there's
a stage where there's just a lot of openness, but
also a lot of a lot of confusion and chaos and
just what what do we actually want to build? How
should the flows work? Like who is this for? Like
how might how might we build it? And um as we as
we answer those questions and um get more designs,
really refine them, we navigate through those
stages and get to extreme clarity on the other
end, which is definitely all of our happy happy
place. We found that interactive prototypes are
just so so so incredibly helpful at the earliest
stages of chaos. They're so much more expressive.
They allow they allow teams they allow teams
product engineering design leads to communicate
ideas using the highest fidelity. They allow
stakeholders to actually try through try and click
through all the different um the actual experience
and give feedback um test with users. And this is
this really helps us like go from go from one to
the very very end. But the thing about interactive
prototypes is that they can actually take a bit
of engineering time, very precious engineering
time while we're working on so many different
plans, so many different goals. Um, closing
the loop with our users and fixing bugs from
our past launchers. Um, so so they can there's
a resource cost to making really amazing high
fidelity prototypes. Um and oftentimes, you know,
if you have um if you have a triad of a product
manager, a designer, engineer like jammy on this,
there can also be a lot of back and forth to get
something really right and really capture it,
especially for very wild ideas. We actually
discovered um just how amazing it is to be
prototyping using claude internally and a lot of
our teams have started um actually using claude to
make interact with artifacts is artifacts really
changed how we do product development and dreaming
at Canva. So when we had new ideas and new
features that we want to build or new flows like
um we're making active prototype and putting
up and share it around and that that really
accelerated things and enabled us to make way
more prototypes. Um so we started prototyping
with cord and we started embedding them in camera
designs. You can actually see like a super early
claude artifact. we were trying we're trying
to is to update our search box um and include
um include our latest AI features. So we did a
very very low fidelity like tailwind um prototype
and um if you've used camera recently um you see
that um you see that we've launched we call this
internally the wonder box but then we also kind
of realized this is so cool this is absolutely
amazing power the just using for internal
prototypes that's like 1% of the way there we
realized just how much like bringing the power of
coding to everyday people and nontechnical users
unlocks. It's a whole whole world of possibility.
So whether you're say like a teacher creating
an educational game or whether you're like a
wedding planner creating a seating channel tool
or like a marketer building interactive activation
experiences, the possibilities are truly endless.
And internally in Canva across all our teams, we
really started using this functionality more and
more for just about everything. But just like on
you know just like kind of canvas like DNA we also
realize that this this power is something that is
very broadly inaccessible. Um just about one just
about half a% of internet users are engineers and
know how to code which is a pretty small number.
Um, so what if we could bring this amazing power
to the whole world, the n the rest of the 99.5 and
that's really where like the idea the idea and the
vision for camera code was born. We really want
to we really wanted to make it incredibly easy
for people to create entirely new interactive
experiences like whether it's, you know, like a
lovely thank you card to the team, whether it's a
checklist for closing out the office, whether it's
um a meal plan generator or even something like a
timeline in a Canva presentation. There's so many
possibilities and these actually real examples
um that our team has been creating. So what did
we do? We did something that was actually pretty
pretty new to how we do product um back then
which was just maybe two or three months ago
and we started making a functional prototype
using using claude um claude code wasn't out
yet so we just used um yeah we just used um that
sonet 3.5 back then and what we did what we did
with a functional prototype was um it was a fully
working and hooked up experience that's um not
part of the main camera code base and just really
allowed us to test like test different ideas test
different UI and concepts um and do that much
faster and actually play around with it and use
it every day. So it let it let us test ideas and
test concepts including really dreamy and really
wacky ones very quickly. It also allowed us to
get real user feedback. So we did user testing
sessions and we put this in front of users and
gave them very little guidance and just saw what
the use cases were, saw how they use it, saw where
they got confused, saw where the magic moment was
and it was also a really efficient ground for us
to be experimenting with all the different models
that are out there. And um so we started building
it in Canva uh for reals um because we after we
got really confident about it. We did um we hooked
up to the camera code base. We handle things like
responsiveness um nine slicing and editing and
camera design. But we also continue to iterate
um um our prototype and basically that was
essentially the next version where we did things
like um div based support which is um coming
very very soon. And um we that that's also when
we tested this experience across all the different
canvas surfaces uh can code can end up in like you
know whether it's in the editor whether it's on
mobile or whether you're on a presentation mode.
We actually even printed out a t-shirt um with
a can code um just to make sure that it actually
worked which was um pretty fun. Like obviously
it wasn't interactive. It was like more of just
a static screenshot but you can print it on a mug
or a t-shirt. Um and the way it works is that we
put kind of code creations um in iframe since it
is really arbitrary um arbitrary user generated
content um and we just use a similar approach
to how we support um embeds in hammer designs.
um when it comes to choosing the model and why
we ended up with um right now with Claude's
um Claude's um sonet models um this is this is a
definitely a really really fun question to explore
and the first thought you all probably have is you
know evals evals and evals and that's definitely
really important especially for correctness but
when we looked at um the model choice for camera
code we had a few additional considerations as
well we really value how magical it is and you
really like the delightfulness as we like to call
it. And when we tested across real user requests,
the ability for models to handle very short and
very underspecified user prompts, things like,
hey, can you like make me can you make me a
game that does blah or hey, can you make me like
um a menu planner where the user isn't really
giving you like very very specific specific
requirements and the LM just has to infer
it. That was really really important to
us. Um the model's ability to make amazing web
designs was also super important. We are we're
a visual communication platform after all.
And finally of course um things like latency
as well as scalability and capacity were also
very very real very very important factors.
So back around um yeah back around March we tested
um a series of tested a lot of different models um
across not just not just whether it generated
valid um valid code but also how subjectively
how good was our web design um at following the
instructions we have in the prompt around things
like UI UX the information hierarchy um all that
kind of stuff um how good is how good is at things
like SVG generations which is something that we're
like always really impressed test by with um CL
family of models things like animations like um
it's able to set things like C index correctly
it's able to you know do colors do timings really
really well and we were just really delighted with
um we were already really delighted with Sonet
3.5 V2 uh 3.7 was a huge huge step up and
um with today's announcement of clot 4
like that's something that's really a
transformational leap in intelligence for coding
and we're also super excited about that as Well,
but I guess like my takeaway here is like
um really think about especially when you're
launching to users like think about the complete
user experience and what they care about. Don't
don't be super academical and just focus um just
focus on you know things like how good it does
at benchmarks or how good it does at um you know
like large code base or really big requests like
um does it actually do the things like generating
icons and SVGs really well too because those are
those are really important to all of our users.
And finally um three lessons we've learned. The
first one, and this is a pretty interesting one
to us, was just how important it is to actually
communicate AI's limitations in all the different
places where there are AI limitations. So, one of
the product principles that we have at Canva is
that everything should just work. It should just
do what it says um on the tin. And when when
coding and building interfaces with LLMs like
um generative yeah LMS can be uh can make very
beautiful things but they might not actually
work. And so when when we did some in real life
user testing sessions um we had users like make
things like portfolio pages um just kind of uh
galleries and things like that. that they included
contact forms but since chemical code right now
is uh just front end only um those contact forms
didn't work and users thought it was broken um
they don't really understand like you know it's
just front end only like you needs destination
needs to hook it up to um you know like an email
sender and things like that. So one of the things
we did is we made sure to prompt the prompt the
model to actually very visibly communicate things
that wouldn't work so that they don't so that
they at least understand that it's the limitations
and that it's intentional and it's not them doing
something wrong. Uh the second lesson is uh we
are absolutely in love with the power of building
functional prototypes. Uh so if you don't know um
so we have a mon repo at Canva with um just about
half a million commits over the past decade.
We support more than 100 languages um um many
different platforms. There's also there's also
global laws and regulations in all environments
we operate. We have enterprise customers with a
lot of contracts SLAs and all that kind of stuff.
So building things like um in canvas repository
um it enables to scale and serve all of our
customers but it's not really the fastest place
to be experimenting and testing new concepts
especially in the fast moving world of AI. So by
building and by starting to build and um iterate
and develop and test and walking prototypes we
could move so much more faster and dream heaps
and heaps of ahead. What we found really useful
was that our team was really actively using these
prototypes dayto-day for real work and real tasks
and that really gave us a lot of learnings and
understanding. Um the live user testing helps
identify issues, bugs and really inform our
road map before we even started actually building
building it for real. And um it's kind of it was
kind of entirely closing the loop. We've built
it um very very heavily with um with claw models
um and just allowed us to move just how to make
make magic. Uh the last lesson I want to share
is like the importance of really differentiating
and playing to your strengths. So in this AI world
like there's so many products um and the barrier
to entry like especially with things like cloud
code and AI coding can be really really low. So
it's really important to be thinking about what
are your unique strengths? What are our unique
strengths in this market and the product that
we're building when it comes to Canva code um is
two things but the first one the most important
is really we're explicitly not building Canva
code for technical users or engineers. Right now,
we're starting bottoms up with nontechnical
users because we want to basically bring the
superpower to just about everyone to the
billions of internet users out there and
then move bottoms up and get to get to higher
and higher levels of sophistication. So for us,
things like how easy it is to start, um how guided
it can be and how well how well it turns people's
dreams or screenshots of mocks in reality is
really important as we move up and up into more
advanced functionality. And I think this a really
important thing to think about. You might not not
necessarily start bottoms up, but definitely have
a focus for what you target and leveraging your
unique strengths and what you what you what you
already have and what your users already use is
really important. So here's a preview for example
like we are working on integrating the camera code
creations with canvas editor. You can do things
like change the colors using our color picker,
apply your brand fonts or drag and drop your
photos um from your asset library and get what
you see is what you get editing experience. And
of course, we're we're spiking this um on our
interactive um prototype. finding and figuring out
just what's the best way to leverage your unique
strengths is definitely really really important
um for not just for building something that offers
value to your users that other people can't. And
we're just really we're just so excited about this
era that we're now in and all the possibilities
that we can unlock. So yeah, that is um that's
everything I have. Um hope you um we do have time
for some Q&A if you want to if you want to chat
and I think there's microphones up there and there
the hope you thanks for having me and I hope you
found the session useful. [Applause] Thanks so
much. Could you share some tips on how you get
the models to produce such beautiful front ends?
Oh yeah, absolutely. So we had um we had a lot of
our designers actually just um really experiment a
lot like um really just trip engineering but some
examples are really simple like one is we instruct
claude to you know never have like a white gray or
black background unless it's requested to always
pick you know say a nice color another one is
we've incorporated things like just basically
our product design principles like you know
like like we have just a set of guidelines on how
information hierarchy should be where controls and
where buttons should be um and we just basically
summarize and put that in there as um as defaults
it tries to follow. So yeah, everything's more or
less like just in the prompt. Thank you. Hello. Um
I'm interested in what is your perspective on like
the future of AI and design more broadly and how
should people who design be thinking about that
is a great AI. That's a really great question.
Like what we what we're really excited about is
how how AI like can unlock and supercharge human
creativity. Like um this technology is allowing
people who normally like you know you would
normally take like say weeks or days um to get to
some output like you can now use AI to to firstly
like clean up all your tedious to not do all your
tedious tasks but it also allows you to dream and
prototype. I think a good example is when we were
planning our event um kind of create event like um
our creative and motion teams were using diffusion
models to really quickly make story boards for
different talks and different activations and
experiences. Um and that allowed us to to just
like get an impression of those ideas, get some
inspiration and um make the actual make the actual
creative process like basically give superpowers
to the creative process. I think like what we're
really excited about is just how much like um how
much air can actually help like um exponentially
increase human creativity. Cool. Well, thank
you. Thank you all so much for having me. Bye.
[Music]